src/theme/typography.stories.mdx, before:

import { Meta, Story } from '@storybook/addon-docs';

import { FontPalette, FontItem } from '../../.storybook/blocks/FontPallete';
import { theme } from './theme';

export const lipsum = `Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Phasellus pharetra
magna lectus, a congue ex blandit vel. Donec id mi commodo eros porta tempus. Vivamus et elit ut
leo tincidunt vehicula non a dolor. Suspendisse placerat turpis nisl, quis gravida sem semper et.`;

<Meta title="Theme/Typography" />

# Typography

Design System have defined two basic font families. As base font family we are using sans-serif
`Inter` font, for monospaced text we are using `SpaceMono` font.

## Font licensing

### Inter

Inter is licensed under the [Open Font License](https://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&id=OFL).
It is not bundled with the package due to its size, therefore it needs to be included in your html imports.

Example:

```html
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com" />
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.gstatic.com" crossorigin />
<link
  href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Inter:wght@400;500;600;700&display=swap"
  rel="stylesheet"
/>
```

or by direct import

```
yarn add @fontsource/inter
```

### SpaceMono

SpaceMono is licensed under the [Open Font License](https://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&id=OFL)
and is bundled within this package.

<FontPalette>
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.family.base"
    subtitle="Inter"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontFamily={theme.typography.family.base}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.family.mono"
    subtitle="SpaceMono"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontFamily={theme.typography.family.mono}
  />
</FontPalette>

## Font weights

<FontPalette>
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.light"
    subtitle="Light weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.light}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.regular"
    subtitle="Regular weight, monospace font can be used only with regular weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.regular}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.medium"
    subtitle="Medium weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.semibold"
    subtitle="Semibold weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.semibold}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.bold"
    subtitle="Bold weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.bold}
  />
</FontPalette>

## Font sizes

### Headings

<FontPalette>
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h1"
    subtitle="Page-level headers"
    sampleText="Heading H1"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h1}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.xxl}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h2"
    subtitle="Section and column headers"
    sampleText="Heading H2"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h2}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.xxl}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h3"
    subtitle="Subsection headers"
    sampleText="Heading H3"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h3}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.xl}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h4"
    subtitle="Block headers"
    sampleText="Heading H4"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h4}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.lg}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h5"
    subtitle="Block headers"
    sampleText="Heading H5"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h5}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.mdPlus}
  />
</FontPalette>

### Body text

<FontPalette>
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.lg"
    subtitle=""
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.lg}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.lg}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.md"
    subtitle=""
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.md}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.md}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.sm"
    subtitle=""
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.sm}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.md}
  />
</FontPalette>

Commit message:

feat(fonts): remove Space Mono from bundle
BREAKING CHANGE: Monospace font needs to be installed separately in order to be used with this package.

src/theme/typography.stories.mdx, after:

import { Meta, Story } from '@storybook/addon-docs';

import { FontPalette, FontItem } from '../../.storybook/blocks/FontPallete';
import { theme } from './theme';

export const lipsum = `Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Phasellus pharetra
magna lectus, a congue ex blandit vel. Donec id mi commodo eros porta tempus. Vivamus et elit ut
leo tincidunt vehicula non a dolor. Suspendisse placerat turpis nisl, quis gravida sem semper et.`;

<Meta title="Theme/Typography" />

# Typography

Design System have defined two basic font families. As base font family we are using sans-serif
`Inter` font, for monospaced text we are using `Space Mono` font. These fonts are not bundled
together with the Design System and need to be installed separately.

## Installation

### yarn

```bash
yarn add @fontsource/inter @fontsource/space-mono
```

### npm

```bash
npm install @fontsource/inter @fontsource/space-mono
```

### Google Web Fonts

```html
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com" />
<link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.gstatic.com" crossorigin />
<link
  href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Inter:wght@400;500;600;700&display=swap"
  rel="stylesheet"
/>
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Space+Mono&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">
```

## Examples

### Families
<FontPalette>
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.family.base"
    subtitle="Inter"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontFamily={theme.typography.family.base}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.family.mono"
    subtitle="SpaceMono"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontFamily={theme.typography.family.mono}
  />
</FontPalette>

### Font weights

<FontPalette>
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.light"
    subtitle="Light weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.light}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.regular"
    subtitle="Regular weight, monospace font can be used only with regular weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.regular}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.medium"
    subtitle="Medium weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.semibold"
    subtitle="Semibold weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.semibold}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.weight.bold"
    subtitle="Bold weight"
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.bold}
  />
</FontPalette>

### Font sizes

#### Headings

<FontPalette>
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h1"
    subtitle="Page-level headers"
    sampleText="Heading H1"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h1}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.xxl}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h2"
    subtitle="Section and column headers"
    sampleText="Heading H2"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h2}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.xxl}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h3"
    subtitle="Subsection headers"
    sampleText="Heading H3"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h3}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.xl}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h4"
    subtitle="Block headers"
    sampleText="Heading H4"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h4}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.lg}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.h5"
    subtitle="Block headers"
    sampleText="Heading H5"
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.h5}
    fontWeight={theme.typography.weight.medium}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.mdPlus}
  />
</FontPalette>

#### Body text

<FontPalette>
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.lg"
    subtitle=""
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.lg}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.lg}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.md"
    subtitle=""
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.md}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.md}
  />
  <FontItem
    title="theme.typography.size.sm"
    subtitle=""
    sampleText={lipsum}
    fontSize={theme.typography.size.sm}
    lineHeight={theme.typography.lineHeight.md}
  />
</FontPalette>
